🌱 Osmo is an modular open-source and automated plant care system. We wanted to create a product that streamlines the plant care process. More importantly, we wanted to create something that can enable folks to have agency over their data and then be able to reflect on the performance of their data and hopefully keep their plants alive while doing so. Osmo is a project for all. We hope that farmers, gardeners, tinkerers, house-plant parents, dev's and DIYers can continually evolve this project. Osmo is modular, it has the ability to be scaled both vertically and horizontally. With the users needs being the fore-front of scale. 🌱 

Throughout the development of Osmo we kept three pillars in mind. Those three pillars are Sustainability, Accesability, and Privacy (SAP). These three pillars host issues that are ever so present in the post-industrial U.S food System. With climate change affecting growing seasons, soils and water supplies a sustainable data-based solution is neccessary to mitigate these threats. Overall, we wanted to create a technology that can enable folks to have agency over their data, efficiently water plants, and be accessible to all.

For starters, Osmo is a low-cost modular system equipped with sensors and powered by Raspberry Pi. Its sensors continuously monitor soil moisture and if the moisture level drops below the ideal threshold, Osmo's hydrates the soil until it reaches the optimum moisture level. The system sends soil moisture data and pump status to a web app, which provides a live stream of the plant. This data and live stream can be accessed via the internet from any personal device, such as a laptop or smartphone. Osmo provides an affordable and convenient way to monitor and care for plants remotely.
